.\" Copyright (c) 2010 Alexander Holupirek <alex@holupirek.de>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF MIND, USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
.\" AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT
.\" OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt BASEX-SERVER 1
.Os BaseX v6.2.1.2043
.Sh NAME
.Nm basex-server
.Nd "XML database system and XPath/XQuery processor"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm basex-server
.Op Fl dpz 
.Op Ar stop
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The 
.Nm
utility starts the server mode of the native XML database system BaseX. Additionally to the standard server mode, the server can be started with the following options.
.Sh OPTIONS
.TP
.Op Ar stop
stop server

.TP
\-d
switch on debugging

.TP
\-p<port>
server port

.TP
\-s
start as service

.TP
\-z
suppress logging

.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "/etc/ntpd.confXXX" -compact
.It Pa ~/.basex
default
.Nm
configuration file
.It Pa ~/.basexwin
configuration of the
.Nm
GUI options
.It Pa ~/.basexperm
user file with all
.Nm
user names and md5-hashed passwords
.El
.\" .Sh EXAMPLES
.\" This next request is for sections 1, 4, 6, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr basex-gui 1 ,
.Xr basex-server 1 ,
.Xr basex-client 1
.\" .Xr foobar 1
.\" .Sh STANDARDS
.\" .Sh HISTORY
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
BaseX is primarily developed by
.An Christian Gruen <christian.gruen@gmail.com>
with the help of others listed on Lk http://www.basex.org/about.php.
.Pp
This man page was written by
.An Alexander Holupirek <alex@holupirek.de> 
in the progress of packaging BaseX for Debian GNU/Linux.
.\" .Sh CAVEATS
.\" .Sh BUGS
